Document issue triage process (#17669)
grafana/grafana: ISSUE_TRIAGE.md

> Triaging of issues

Reviewer: Should we link this from the issue templates?

Author: Yes, eventually. But one thing at a time, want to get this merged. Then we can start iterating on this and improve other documentation with links and such.

- Non-default configuration settings
- Development environment like Go and Node versions, if applicable

#### Enhancement request?

Should explain what enhancement or feature that the author wants to be added and why that is needed.

#### Accessibility issue?

This is a mix between a bug report and enhancement request but focused on accessibility issues to help make Grafana improve keyboard navigation, screen-reader support and being accessible to everyone. The report should include relevant WCAG criteria, if applicable.

#### Support request?

In general, if the issue description and title is perceived as a question no more information is needed.

### Good practices

To make it easier for everyone to understand and find issues they're searching for it's suggested as a general rule of thumbs to:

* Make sure that issue titles are named to explain the subject of the issue, has a correct spelling and and doesn't include irrelevant information and/or sensitive information.
* Make sure that issue descriptions doesn't include irrelevant information, information from template that haven't been filled out and/or sensitive information.

> * Make changes to title and description after best effort or request suggested changes by adding a comment.

Reviewer: `after best effort` sounds kinda weird or I do not sure exactly what that means I assume it should be something like `Do your best effort to change title and description or ...`?

**Minor typo/error/lack of information:**

There's a minor typo/error/lack of information that adds a lot of confusion for users and given the amount of work is a big win to make sure fixing it:
1. Either update the documentation yourself and open a pull request.
2. Either delegate the work to someone else by assigning that person to the issue and add the issue to next major/minor milestone.

**Major error/lack of information:**

1. Label the issue with `help wanted` and `beginner friendly`, if applicable, to signal that we find this important to fix and we would appreciate any help we can get from the community.
2. Move on to [prioritizing the issue](#4-prioritization-of-issues).

### Accessibility issue?

1. Label the issue `type/accessibility` and at least one `area/*` or `datasource/*` label.

### Support request?

1. Kindly and politely direct the issue author to the [community site](https://community.grafana.com/) and explain that GitHub is mainly used for tracking bugs and feature requests. If possible, it's usually a good idea to add some pointers to the issue author's question.
2. Close the issue and label it with `type/question`.

> ## 4. Prioritization of issues

Reviewer: I feel like this would be the hardest part to get right for new people doing issue triage but no idea how to make it easier.

Author: Yes, I totally agree! Will try to add some additional pointers

**Important short-term?**

1. Label the issue `priority/important-soon`.
2. If applicable, label the issue `priority/support-subscription`.
3. Add the issue to the next upcoming patch or major/minor stable release milestone. Ask maintainers for help if unsure if it's a patch or not. Create a new milestone if there are none.
4. Make sure to add the issue to a suitable backlog of a GitHub project and prioritize it or assign someone to work on it now or very soon.
5. Consider requesting [help from the community](#5-requesting-help-from-the-community), even though it may be problematic given a short amount of time until it should be released.

**Important long-term?**

1. Label the issue `priority/important-longterm`.
2. Consider requesting [help from the community](#5-requesting-help-from-the-community).

**Nice to have?**

1. Label the issue `priority/nice-to-have`.
2. Consider requesting [help from the community](#5-requesting-help-from-the-community).

**Not critical, but unsure?**

1. Label the issue `priority/unscheduled`.
2. Consider requesting [help from the community](#5-requesting-help-from-the-community).

## 5. Requesting help from the community

> Depending on the issue and/or priority, it's always a good idea to consider signaling to the communicty that help from community is appreciated and needed in case an issue is not prioritized to be worked on by maintainers. Use your best judgement. In general, when requesting help from the community it means a contribution has a good chance of getting accepted and merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the issue and/or priority, it's always a good idea to consider signalling to the community that help from community is appreciated and needed in case an issue is not prioritized to be worked on by maintainers. Use your best judgement. In general, when requesting help from the community it means a contribution has a good chance of getting accepted and merged.
```

Investigating issues can be a very time consuming task, especially for the maintainers given the huge number of combinations of plugins, datasources, platforms, databases, browsers, tools, hardware, integrations, versions and cloud services etc that are being used with Grafana. There are a certain amount of combinations that are more common than others and these are in general easier for maintainers to investigate.

For some other combinations there may not be possible at all for a maintainer to setup a proper test environment for being able to investigate. In these cases we really appreciate any help we can get from the community. Otherwise the issue is highly likely to be closed.

> Even if you don't have the time or knowledge to investigate an issue we highly recommend that you [upvote](http://link-here) the issue if you happen to have the same problem. If you have further details that may help investigating the issue please provide as much information as possible.

Reviewer: Should be something here `[upvote](http://link-here)`?

Author: Well spotted. Will fix.

## Appendix

> ### Setting up Gmail filters

Reviewer: Not sure if it makes sense here (mac only I think) but I use https://github.com/ptsochantaris/trailer for this.

Author: Added it to "Subscribe to all notifications" section.
